I found the following interview very illuminating:

https://tomwoods.com/ep-2074-russia-ukraine-and-nato/

This was, in my judgment, finally, a sensible cause and effect analysis on the Ukraine conflict, that doesn't just try to paint things as a reaction to NATO incursion (which is surely some part of the story.)

In that interview, Tom Wood's guest, Gilbert Doctorow, explains that there has been an informal undeclared war against the Russian Ukrainian states for 8 years (with active shelling of Ukrainian/Russian civilians in those areas), and the Ukrainian declaration of intent to develop nuclear weaponry (2 wks ago.)

Add to that the fact that psychopathic elements in the US government and power institutions financed a coup in the Ukraine for the tune of $5 Billion dollars in 2014 (Obama era), where some of that financing went to literal NeoNazis.  We have multiple generations of US government corruption in play, as Trump kept up the game by coordinating US weapon sales to Ukraine, and it's highly likely that Biden's family has some significant money laundering games that have been going down in the region.

I'm not excusing Putin and the psychopathic elements that surely also exist on the Russian side.  There is plausible reporting on Putin's use of bombing or attempting to bomb his own people in Moscow to justify the Chechen war.  It takes a special kind of evil to kill your own people to justify killing other people.  There's also considerable reporting on the disappearing of and deaths of Russian reporters and disidents.  I'd be very surpised if there was not truth to some of that given that Putin's origin story is deeply mixed up with the KGB.

However, when you see the media all moving in lock step beating the drums of war, it's clear that there's a heavy propaganda element to the story, and that there must be deeper issues at play.  US funded covert conflict is likely a big part of the underlying story.

It takes a lot of work to get a full scale conflict to play out, and this one is big enough that apparently everybody has forgotten all the covid fear mongering and all the government and medical tyrany that has played out over the last two years.  One thing that we can be certain of, is that a lot of people will make money from this war, or the financial gouging that is enabled by it, regardless of the extent that it is taken.  
